README.md, before:

# Tryton Website

This repository holds a pelican powered static site generator
that is used to build the tryton website. This README has
information you may need if you wish to contribute to the
site.

## Setting up a development environment

```bash

# Clone the repo
git clone git@github.com:openlabs/tryton.us
cd tryton.us

# The pelican plugins are in a submodule
git submodule init
git submodule update

# Install the dependencies
pip install -r requirements.txt

# Build the pages
fab build

# Serve the pages to view on browser
fab serve
```

Your terminal should now say `Serving on port 8000 ...`

Open [localhost:8000](http://localhost:8000) and you should 
be able to see the tryton website on your browser.

## Template Pages and Articles

The two main content types through the website are pages
like apps, features and contact-us and articles which are
blog posts, news items and tutorials. The pages are generated
directly from templates and are explicitly listed on the
`pelicanconf.py` file. The articles however are automatically
discovered from the content folder. If you are confused if
what you wish to write has to be a page or an article, please
open up a github issue and perhaps others could help ?

### Folder structure

Articles are written in the content folder and their translated
versions are written in the specific language folders.

```
├── content
│   ├── fr
│   │   └── my-article.md
│   └── my-article.md
```

## Translating content

The translation system uses standard gettext and the jinja2
plugin system to build pages with translations. The articles
however require separate files where the translated article
is written (see folder structure above).

Some useful commands that will help you translate the website
are documented below. All commands are implemented in the fabfile
and can be invoked using `fab <cmd>:<arg>`.

### `i18n_init:<lang_code>`

Initialize for a new language translation folder which
does not exist already. You can check if a translation
folder already exists.

Example:

`fab i18n_init:fr`

while would initialize french translations.

### `i18n_extract`

Extract translatable strings once again by going through
the templates. This would be usually done by a release
manager before releasing a new version of the website.

### `i18n_update_catalog`

Update catalog when messages changes. Usually done after
an extract operation is done. This could add untranslated
strings to the individual language po files.

### `i18n_compile`

Compile all translations from the corresponding po files
of each language.

```
├── i18n
│   ├── fr
│   │   └── LC_MESSAGES
│   └── messages.pot
```

Commit message:

Bower install is needed for static files
The README did not have the step explained.

README.md, after:

# Tryton Website

This repository holds a pelican powered static site generator
that is used to build the tryton website. This README has
information you may need if you wish to contribute to the
site.

## Setting up a development environment

```bash

# Clone the repo
git clone git@github.com:openlabs/tryton.us
cd tryton.us

# The pelican plugins are in a submodule
git submodule init
git submodule update

# Install the dependencies
pip install -r requirements.txt

# Build the pages
fab build

# Serve the pages to view on browser
fab serve
```

Your terminal should now say `Serving on port 8000 ...`

Open [localhost:8000](http://localhost:8000) and you should 
be able to see the tryton website on your browser.

You should now be able to see the content but the page will
look broken to you if this is the first time you are running
`fab build`. This is because the CSS and JS assets are not
bundled with the repo, but have to be installed using 
[bower](http://bower.io/) (`pip` equivalent in the web
development world). 

```bash

# From the root of the folder
bower install

# To update the dependencies
bower update
```

*You must have [bower installed](http://bower.io/#install-bower)
for the above command to work.*

## Template Pages and Articles

The two main content types through the website are pages
like apps, features and contact-us and articles which are
blog posts, news items and tutorials. The pages are generated
directly from templates and are explicitly listed on the
`pelicanconf.py` file. The articles however are automatically
discovered from the content folder. If you are confused if
what you wish to write has to be a page or an article, please
open up a github issue and perhaps others could help ?

### Folder structure

Articles are written in the content folder and their translated
versions are written in the specific language folders.

```
├── content
│   ├── fr
│   │   └── my-article.md
│   └── my-article.md
```

## Translating content

The translation system uses standard gettext and the jinja2
plugin system to build pages with translations. The articles
however require separate files where the translated article
is written (see folder structure above).

Some useful commands that will help you translate the website
are documented below. All commands are implemented in the fabfile
and can be invoked using `fab <cmd>:<arg>`.

### `i18n_init:<lang_code>`

Initialize for a new language translation folder which
does not exist already. You can check if a translation
folder already exists.

Example:

`fab i18n_init:fr`

while would initialize french translations.

### `i18n_extract`

Extract translatable strings once again by going through
the templates. This would be usually done by a release
manager before releasing a new version of the website.

### `i18n_update_catalog`

Update catalog when messages changes. Usually done after
an extract operation is done. This could add untranslated
strings to the individual language po files.

### `i18n_compile`

Compile all translations from the corresponding po files
of each language.

```
├── i18n
│   ├── fr
│   │   └── LC_MESSAGES
│   └── messages.pot
```
